One of my main objectives in teaching this course is to
set you up for success in your own data science initiatives.
As such, I'd like to share several of the things that I've noticed during my career that
represent red flag warnings that
suggest the potential of failure of data science projects.
I have 13 reasons that data science projects fail that I detail in my book.
These are as follows.
One, the data science initiative is not aligned with
the business' strategic objectives and
therefore fails to address a critical business need.
Two, groups and people in the organization
failed the collaborate well enough around the data science project.
Three, the data science initiative didn't produce the results expected by the business.
Four, the data science initiative failed to maintain
sufficient support and buy-in from the executive leaders in the business.
Five, expectations were set too high and the resulting product did not measure up.
Six, the idea behind
the data science project is flawed and simply will not work as designed.
Seven, the idea is great,
but there's not enough information or variation in the data for data science or
machine learning to detect a robust signal and provide the intended results.
Eight, governance rules restrict the data and uses of the data.
Nine, the data exists in different silos and cannot be integrated or reconciled.
Ten, the data was not well understood
and could not be used as expected for the data science initiative.
Eleven, the machine learning training set was insufficient.
Twelve, insufficient resources, people,
hardware, and software were allocated to the project.
Finally, thirteen, the culture of the business
is not accepting of data science and digital transformation.